the Israeli government says it's
expanded its goals in the war on Gaza to
include the return of Israeli residents
to areas near the border with Lebanon
the hostilities there have forced tens
of thousands of people on both sides of
the border to leave their homes it's
been escalating conflict between Israel
and the Lebanese group Hezbollah since
the war on Gaza
began well Lebanon continues to be
severely affected since Israel's war on
Gaza began in October last year more
than 100,000 people have fled villages
and towns in southern Lebanon because of
these crossb strikes between the Israeli
Army and Hezbollah the UN says at least
149,000 people remain within 10 km of
the Blue Line the United Nations
patrolled boundary that separates Israel
and the occupied Goen Heights from
Lebanon let's speak to Alan pinkas who's
the former Israeli Diplomat and chief of
staff to former prime minister ahod
Barack he joins us live from Tel Aviv um
a warm welcome to you so there are a few
domestic issues I'd like to start with
the internal politics in Israel at the
moment particularly interesting what do
you understand to be the rationale
Behind These repeated reports in the
Israeli media that longtime defense
minister YF Galant May well be replaced
by opposition politician Gideon
Sahar okay two two things NE um always
good to be with you but two things now
um Mr Mr Gallant will will not be
replaced but he will be fired if the
rumors are true and if the speculation
proves to be accurate he will be sarily
fired by Mr netan who many of the
viewers may have forgotten who was
already fired sort of uh in in in March
of 2023 emid the uh uh uh the
Constitutional coup that Mr netan
instigated but 24 hours or 48 hours
later was reinstate
secondly Mr gona aside from the fact
that he's completely unqualified to be
defense minister is not really an
opposition politician yes he's in the
opposition in terms of where he's seated
in the CET no he's not an opposition in
terms of substance and policy uh so what
you see here though uh NE it has nothing
to do with Lebanon even though prime
minister netan tries to portray this as
you know I'm I'm I'm I'm All gungho
About an operation in Lebanon and we got
to get this fixed and Mr Gallant is
impeding this is M Mr Gallant has
reservations that's entirely bogus and
untrue Mr Gallant For Better or For
Worse has been advocating a military uh
operation against balah ever since
October
2023 so this is all about Mr Nan's
political survival this is all about
maintaining the uh intactness of his
Coalition okay this is all about
allowing him to stay in power all right
understood before we move on to to other
issues then I mean how do you then
explain the far national security
minister itamar Ben gavier saying uh
quote a decision must be made in the
north of course referring to Hezbollah
in Lebanon and Galant is not the right
man to lead it is that simply an
extension of Netanyahu
politics oh absolutely um um Field
Marshal benier who has not served in the
military for one day but claims to know
a lot about uh uh military strategy and
uh and Military planning is uh um is
talking every day I mean he's you know
as far as he's concerned attack Iran
attack Italy attack U you know okay um
um he should not be taken
seriously as a person however he should
be taken very seriously because what he
says Neeve uh reflects the Prime
Minister and any attempt to say that the
Prime Minister thinks differently but is
finds it difficult to Reign Mr Ben in
that's
nonsense say understood Alan okay look
we've got the US Secretary of State
heading back to Egypt for talks with
mediators there the Palestinians believe
netanyahu's uncompromising insistence
that Israel continues to occupy the
Philadelphia coridor between Gaza and
Egypt is quote a tactic to sabotage
talks purely because it violates US
President Joe Biden's earlier proposal
what does Israel now anticipate Anthony
blinkin is going to say to the
Egyptians um you know a secretary of
state blinkin who's going to come to the
region for the 13th time I think since
October 7th is going to try and
resuscitate this deal I mean no one has
done more to make a deal happened than
the government of
Qatar um and yet both the qataris and
the Egyptian and the Americans have came
to the conclusion that Mr netan and Mr
senoir uh each for his own reasons have
a vested interest in prolonging the war
and and are not both are not really
interested in in a deal now Israel
expects um um Secretary of State blinkin
to present to the Egyptians a new
American plan that they with the qataris
but maybe just the the Egyptians will
present to Kamas with the hope that
Hamas accepts this um and and that
includes a clause uh NE in which uh um
Israel maintains only a temporary uh um
um control of the Philadelphia Corridor
but the Philadelphia Corridor again is
is a uh is a distraction and a uh and
and and and
disingenuous um a host of Israeli
generals who know the the the area who
know the terrain who who know the uh uh
the risks have been saying that Mr netan
has been uh mendacious about the
Philadelphia Corridor that this is not
um um a major deal this is certainly not
a make or break deal in terms of a
ceasefire and hostage deal and he is
only using it as a pretext uh to avoid a
deal so um to make a long story short um
I don't think anyone expects secretary
blink's uh uh uh trip to produce
anything tangible right right all very
very interesting analysis Alan Pinkus
almost really Diplomat and chief of
staff to the former Israeli Prime
Minister ER barck always a pleasure
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler